This project was assigned to students of Purdue's CS 37300 course to gain competency working practically with decision tree. The project involved creating a program to construct decision trees, use different methods to prune the tree to avoid overfitting, and perform statistical analysis using R to chart the effect of k-fold cross validation on the accuracy of the produced model. 
Included below is a list of each of the files and what they are being used for:
HW2 handout.pdf: This PDF was provided to the students as an explanation of the requirements for the project, as well as including questions about results analysis that was to be included with the final project submission. Credit for creation of the document goes to Dan Goldwasser.
HW2 Jason Rapsinski.pdf: This document includes my answers regarding the questions asked in the handout, as well as result analysis for the generated models performed with RStudio.
HW2.R: This document is the R code that was used to perform the result analysis. The data was imported and then used to create line graphs to visualize the effects of different pruning methods on the model's accuracy.
jrapsins-ID3.py: This document contains the Python code that was made to create and test different decision tree models with various pruning methods. Although specifically designed to work with the included dataset, the script can work with any single-labeled data set. The program also supports minimum split pruning, maximum depth pruning, and post pruning to avoid overfitting.
titanic-train.data and titanic-train.label: These files contain the training data that the decision tree maker used to generate model. The file titanic-train.data contains the data on passengers and titanic-train.label contains the labels (ie. did the pasenger survive or not) for each corresponding passenger.
sample.data and sample.label: These files contain the testing data that the decision tree maker used to find the accuracy of the best model. The file sample.data contains the data on passengers and sample.label contains the labels (ie. did the pasenger survive or not) for each corresponding passenger.
